Digital Ocean app platform deployment guide (#857)
strapi/documentation: docs/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/deployment/hosting-guides/digitalocean-app-platform-2022.md

---
title: DigitalOcean App Platform Deployment - Strapi Developer Docs
description: Learn in this guide how to deploy your Strapi application on DigitalOcean App Platform.
canonicalUrl: https://docs.strapi.io/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/deployment/hosting-guides/digitalocean-app-platform-2022.html
---

# Deploying to DigitalOcean App Platform

> The purpose of this guide is to allow users to deploy Strapi applications on the DigitalOcean App Platform. While both Strapi and DigitalOcean App Platform can work with multiple types of databases the focus is on connecting to a postgres development database so users can test their application in a deployed environment. Future additions to the guide will address different database options. This guide does not cover migrating local database content to a production database or connecting front-end applications to the DigitalOcean App Platform.

Reviewer: Actually, the official full name and casing are [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/). Thanks for mentioning it, Mégane 🙂

> The purpose of this guide is to allow users to deploy Strapi applications on the DigitalOcean App Platform. While both Strapi and DigitalOcean App Platform can work with multiple types of databases the focus is on connecting to a postgres development database so users can test their application in a deployed environment. Future additions to the guide will address different database options. This guide does not cover migrating local database content to a production database or connecting front-end applications to the DigitalOcean App Platform.

Author: > 

Do we have such resources?

> The purpose of this guide is to allow users to deploy Strapi applications on the DigitalOcean App Platform. While both Strapi and DigitalOcean App Platform can work with multiple types of databases the focus is on connecting to a postgres development database so users can test their application in a deployed environment. Future additions to the guide will address different database options. This guide does not cover migrating local database content to a production database or connecting front-end applications to the DigitalOcean App Platform.

Author: I don't believe we have such documentation internally. So I have added links to the DigitalOcean documentation. Also PostgreSQL fixed throughout.

::: caution

> Strapi maintains deployment guides to assist users in deploying projects. Since there are frequent updates to Strapi and to the hosting provider platforms, the guides are sometimes out of date. If you encounter an issue deploying your project following this guide, please open an issue on GitHub.

Author: OK, I made both of these adjustments. Thanks!

:::

> ## Prerequisites

Author: I have reworked this section. I am still working on the section heading.

Prior to starting the deployment process each user will need:

- a DigitalOcean account ([referral link](https://try.digitalocean.com/strapi/)),
- a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join),
- Git version control.

> The DigitalOcean App Platform uses version control repositories such as GitHub to deploy applications. In addition to GitHub, GitLab and Docker are also supported. The Strapi referral link for DigitalOcean provides \$100 in credits. Git version control must be used locally, in order to store an application in a remote repository such as GitHub. Follow the details below to setup Git for the project.

Author: I have reworked the paragraph: 
1. move the credits info to the bullet
2. move the details of Git to the bullet
3. focus the paragraph on only contextualizing. I also flipped the logic.

::: details - Setting up Git version control and connecting to a remote repository

[Git quick-start guide from GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git)

> :::

Author: This was in details formatting because I had not yet decided how much detail to add. IMO details formatting is for information that is not strictly necessary for a procedure. This is how it is used in the migration guides. Happy to make sure we are all aligned on this!

## Setting up a Strapi project for deployment

Strapi uses [environment configurations](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/configurations/optional/environment.md) to maintain multiple environments inside a single application. This section describes how to setup a production environment in a Strapi application.

> 1. [Create a new Strapi application using the quickstart flag](/developer-docs/latest/getting-started/quick-start.md) or navigate to the root directory of an existing Strapi application.

Author: This does not align with all of the existing deployment guides. We can make this change, but it will need to be propagated through the rest of the guides.

<code-group>

<code-block title='JAVASCRIPT'>

```jsx
// path: ./config/env/production/database.js

module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  connection: {
    client: 'postgres',
    connection: {
      host: env('DATABASE_HOST'), 
      port: env.int('DATABASE_PORT'), 
      database: env('DATABASE_NAME'), 
      user: env('DATABASE_USERNAME'), 
      password: env('DATABASE_PASSWORD'),
      ssl: {
        rejectUnauthorized:env.bool('DATABASE_SSL_SELF', false),
      },
    },
    debug: false,
  },
});

```

</code-block>

<code-block title='TYPESCRIPT'>

```jsx
//path:config/env/production/database.ts

export default ({ env }) => ({
  connection: {
    client: 'postgres',
    connection: {
      host: env('DATABASE_HOST'), 
      port: env.int('DATABASE_PORT'), 
      database: env('DATABASE_NAME'), 
      user: env('DATABASE_USERNAME'), 
      password: env('DATABASE_PASSWORD'),
      ssl: {
        rejectUnauthorized:env.bool('DATABASE_SSL_SELF', false),
      },
    },
    debug: false,
  },
});

```

</code-block>
</code-group>

> ### Configuring server

Author: Agree, I have added an intro (still in revision).

> ### Configuring server

Author: Agree, I have added an intro (still in revision).

<code-group>

<code-block title='JAVASCRIPT'>

```jsx
//path:config/env/production/server.js

module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
    proxy: true,
    url: env('APP_URL'),
    app: { 
      keys: env.array('APP_KEYS')
    },
  })

```

</code-block>

<code-block title='TYPESCRIPT'>

```jsx
//path:config/env/production/server.ts

export default ({ env }) => ({
    proxy: true,
    url: env('APP_URL'),
    app: { 
      keys: env.array('APP_KEYS')
    },
  })

```

</code-block>
</code-group>

> ### Adding postgres dependencies

Author: fixed

Connecting a postgres database to Strapi requires a set of Node modules contained in the `pg` package. Use the same package manager used to create the Strapi application to install `pg`. Run the following command in a terminal:

<code-group>

<code-block title="NPM">
```bash
npm install pg
```
</code-block>

<code-block title="YARN">
```bash
yarn add pg
```
</code-block>

</code-group>

### Committing the project to a remote repository

Save the Strapi application locally then, in a terminal, run :

1. `git add .`
2. `git commit -m "commit message"`
3. `git push`

## Creating a DigitalOcean App

On the DigitalOcean website click on the **Create** button and select *Apps*.  Next select GitHub and authorize access to the correct repository. Next:

1. select the branch,
2. select the source directory (optional),
3. chose whether or not to "Autodeploy" when an update is pushed to the GitHub repository,

> 4. click the **Next** button.

Author: fixed

### Connecting a web app to a database

> On the next screen:

Author: Added an intro.

1. click **add resource**,
2. select database, and click **Add**,
3. On the next screen select *dev database* and name the database. The default database name is "db" and that will be used in the subsequent sections.
4. Click the **Create and attach** button.

> 5. On the next screen click the **Next** button to set the environment variables.

Author: OK fixing this!

> ### Environmental variables

Reviewer 2: This title should start with an action verb so that the user knows what they should do here + to make that title fit with the other titles of the documentation.

Reviewer 2: Also, this section needs restructuring I think. We have some steps here and there which are not in proper procedures but lot in big paragraphs ; and it's difficult to find what is the action/goal of that section.

Author: - Changed the title to **Add environment variables**
- edited the procedure into a numeric step form
- clarified some of the details
- added a callout about secret generation

| URL               | ${APP_URL}     |
| DATABASE_HOST     | ${db.HOSTNAME} |
| DATABASE_PORT     | ${db.PORT}     |
| DATABASE_NAME     | ${db.DATABASE} |
| DATABASE_USERNAME | ${db.USERNAME} |
| DATABASE_PASSWORD | ${db.PASSWORD} |
| NODE_ENV          | production     |

Click **Save**.
At the top of the *Settings* menu select your Strapi application component. Scroll down to the Environment variables and click **edit** on the far right of the menu. The secrets for a Strapi application are set in the component settings environment variables. In your local application these secrets are stored in the `.env` file by default. Security is enhanced if different keys are generated for different environments. Add the following secrets and keys to the component environment variables table:

| Variable name    | value                               |
|------------------|-------------------------------------|
| APP_KEYS         | "unique user-generated secret here" |
| API_TOKEN_SALT   | "unique user-generated secret here" |
| ADMIN_JWT_SECRET | "unique user-generated secret here" |
| JWT_SECRET       | "unique user-generated secret here" |

Click **Save**.

::: caution

> The environmental variables for the development and managed database are handled differently by DigitalOcean. When connected to a managed database DigitalOcean passes the environmental variables automatically as a url. Check the .yaml file to confirm the db settings are not duplicated if using a managed database.

Reviewer 2: Again, careful with the spelling of some words:
- "url" should be written "URL"
- "db settings" shouldn't it be "database settings"?

Also, shouldn't ".yaml" be in code formatting since that's what you did most of the time in that documentation? :)

:::

> ### Deploying and accessing a Strapi application

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't that be an H2? 🤔

> When the above steps are completed DigitalOcean should automatically try to build and deploy the application. If the build does not start, click the **Actions** button in the upper right and select *force rebuild and deploy*. The Strapi admin panel is accessed at {your app domain}/admin once the application is successfully deployed.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we could first mention in a paragraph the automatic build + deploy, than how to access the admin panel. Then, the helpful tip in case the build doesn't start could be in a callout. What do you think?

Author: good idea. Done.

---
title: DigitalOcean App Platform Deployment - Strapi Developer Docs
description: Learn in this guide how to deploy your Strapi application on DigitalOcean App Platform.
canonicalUrl: https://docs.strapi.io/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/deployment/hosting-guides/digitalocean-app-platform-2022.html
---

> # Deploy to the DigitalOcean App Platform

Author: > More a question than a suggestion: in most titles we used the "-ing" form for verbs, but I see here you chose not to do it. Does one sound better than the other for titles? 🤔

It is an accessibility issue: https://developers.google.com/style/headings

> # Deploy to the DigitalOcean App Platform

Reviewer 2: Well, that's indeed a good reason, though it would have been better to share that with the team so we all discuss and decide together to change the way we write titles. If you're the only one to do that on your own, it just looks like it's not consistent. But if you opened a discussion with the team, it would allow everyone to learn and would make team work more efficient. Don't you think?

> The purpose of this guide is to allow users to deploy Strapi applications on the DigitalOcean App Platform. This guide uses the PostgreSQL development database provided by DigitalOcean, so applications can be tested in a deployed environment. At the end of the guide there is information on how to connect a Strapi application to a DigitalOcean Managed Database. Additional information about [migrating local database content to a production database](https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/databases/postgresql/how-to/import-databases/) and other deployment topics are provided in the [DigitalOcean documentation](https://docs.digitalocean.com/). <!--info about managed db for non PostgreSQL here>

Reviewer: The comment is not properly closed 😅

Author: removed

::: caution
Strapi maintains deployment guides to assist users in deploying projects. Since there are frequent updates to Strapi and to the hosting provider platforms, the guides are sometimes out of date. If you encounter an issue deploying your project following this guide, please [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/strapi/documentation/issues) or [submit a pull request](https://github.com/strapi/documentation/pulls) to improve the documentation.
:::

## Prepare

Prior to starting the deployment process each user needs:

- a DigitalOcean account ([The Strapi referral link for DigitalOcean provides \$100 in credits.](https://try.digitalocean.com/strapi/)),
- a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join),
- [Git version control.](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git)
- an existing Strapi application

> Git version control is necessary to efficiently add a Strapi application to a remote repository such as GitHub. The DigitalOcean App Platform uses version control repositories such as GitHub to deploy applications. In addition to GitHub, GitLab and Docker are also supported.

Author: What is the reasoning? This way gives users a quick checklist and if they are ready they can skip the explanation. You want to mix the requirements and explanations?

> ## Setup a Strapi project for deployment

Author: I rewrote the procedure. I think it also looks better with less headings. Thanks!

      ssl: {
        rejectUnauthorized:env.bool('DATABASE_SSL_SELF', false),
      },
    },
    debug: false,
  },
});

```

</code-block>

<code-block title='TYPESCRIPT'>

```jsx
//path: ./config/env/production/database.ts

export default ({ env }) => ({
  connection: {
    client: 'postgres',
    connection: {
      host: env('DATABASE_HOST'), 
      port: env.int('DATABASE_PORT'), 
      database: env('DATABASE_NAME'), 
      user: env('DATABASE_USERNAME'), 
      password: env('DATABASE_PASSWORD'),
      ssl: {
        rejectUnauthorized:env.bool('DATABASE_SSL_SELF', false),
      },
    },
    debug: false,
  },
});
```

</code-block>
</code-group>

### Configure the server

The `server.js` config file (or `server.ts` for a TypeScript project) for a deployed project requires the `url` property instead of the `host` and `port` properties that are used in the local development environment. The `APP_URL` variable is then specified as an [environment variable](#add-environment-variables) in the DigitalOcean App Platform. Add the following code snippet to `./config/env/production/server`

<code-group>

<code-block title='JAVASCRIPT'>

```jsx

> //path: ./config/env/production/server.js

Author: fixed

module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
    proxy: true,
    url: env('APP_URL'),
    app: { 
      keys: env.array('APP_KEYS')
    },
});
```

</code-block>

<code-block title='TYPESCRIPT'>

```jsx
//path: ./config/env/production/server.ts

export default ({ env }) => ({
    proxy: true,
    url: env('APP_URL'),
    app: { 
      keys: env.array('APP_KEYS')
    },
});
```

</code-block>
</code-group>

### Add PostgreSQL dependencies

Connecting a PostgreSQL database to Strapi requires a set of Node modules contained in the [`pg` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg). Use the same package manager used to create the Strapi application to install `pg`. Run the following command in a terminal:

<code-group>

<code-block title="NPM">
```sh
npm install pg
```
</code-block>

<code-block title="YARN">
```sh
yarn add pg
```
</code-block>

</code-group>

### Commit the project to a remote repository

Save the Strapi application locally then, in a terminal, run:

```sh
git add .
git commit -m "commit message"
git push
```

## Create a DigitalOcean App

> On the DigitalOcean website click on the **Create** button and select *Apps*.  Next select GitHub and authorize access to the correct repository. Next:

Author: I rewrote this section.

1. Select the branch.
2. (Optional) select the source directory.
3. Choose whether or not to "Autodeploy" when an update is pushed to the GitHub repository.
4. Click the **Next** button.

### Connect an App to a database

On the DigitalOcean App Platform there is an option between a development or a managed (production) database. On the following screen:

> 1. click **add resource**,

Author: 🫤 I thought I caught all of them, thanks!

2. select database, and click **Add**,
3. On the next screen select *dev database* and name the database. The default database name is "db" and that will be used in the subsequent sections.
4. Click the **Create and attach** button.
5. On the next screen click the **Next** button to set the environment variables.

### Add environment variables

In the DigitalOcean App Platform there are App and Component-level environment variables. Strapi applications in production need App-level variables to set the database connection, and can use either Component or App-level variables for secrets storage. The following procedure is to add the database variables at the App level and store the Strapi secrets at the Component level.

1. Add the following variables to the global environment table:

> | Variable name     | Value          |

Author: Great idea!

|-------------------|----------------|
| URL               | ${APP_URL}     |
| DATABASE_HOST     | ${db.HOSTNAME} |
| DATABASE_PORT     | ${db.PORT}     |
| DATABASE_NAME     | ${db.DATABASE} |
| DATABASE_USERNAME | ${db.USERNAME} |
| DATABASE_PASSWORD | ${db.PASSWORD} |
| NODE_ENV          | production     |

2. Click **Save**.
3. At the top of the *Settings* menu select your Strapi application component.
4. Scroll down to the *Environment Variables* and click **edit**.
5. Add the following key-value pairs to the component environment variables table:

> | Variable name    | value                               |

Reviewer: Same here (indentation)

::: tip
If the build does not start, click the **Actions** button in the upper right and select *force rebuild and deploy*.
:::

## Add a managed database

DigitalOcean managed databases are a production-scale database solution for a deployed Strapi application. Switching from a development database to a managed database requires modifying the Strapi application and modifying the settings on DigitalOcean:

- removing the development database and database environment variables,
- installing the `pg-connection-string` dependency,
- changing the production `database` file,
- creating and attaching the database in the DigitalOcean platform.

### Modify the Strapi application

When a managed database is attached to a Strapi application, the connection parameters are passed directly from the database to the application `.yaml` file. This requires a modification to the `config/env/production/database` file and the addition of the `pg-connection-string` dependency.

To add the `pg-connection-string` dependency navigate to the project directory and run the following code snippet in a terminal:

<code-group>

<code-block title="NPM">
```sh

> npm install pg-connection-string --save <!-- needed?-->

Reviewer: Did you really mean to add an HTML comment inside the CLI code block?

  process.env.DATABASE_URL
);

module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
    client: 'postgres',
    connection: {
      host,
      port,
      database,
      user,
      password,
      ssl: {
        rejectUnauthorized: false,
      },
      debug: false,
  },
});

```

</code-block>

<code-block title='TYPESCRIPT'>

```jsx
//path: ./config/env/production/database.ts

const parse = require("pg-connection-string").parse;

const { host, port, database, user, password } = parse(
  process.env.DATABASE_URL
);

export default ({ env }) => ({
    client: 'postgres',
    connection: {
      host,
      port,
      database,
      user,
      password,
      ssl: {
        rejectUnauthorized: false,
      },
      debug: false,
  },
});

```

</code-block>
</code-group>

### Modify settings on DigitalOcean

1. Create a managed database.
2. Attach the managed database to the App.
3. Delete all database environment variables from the App.
4. Check the `.yaml` file for any remaining database environment variables.
5. (optional) If there are environment variables in the `.yaml` file, download the file, delete the environment variables and upload the edited file to DigitalOcean.

> ### Deploy the application to DigitalOcean

Author: removed the heading

- [Git version control.](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git)

The DigitalOcean App Platform uses version control repositories such as GitHub to deploy applications. In addition to GitHub, GitLab and Docker are also supported. The Strapi referral link for DigitalOcean provides \$100 in credits. Git version control must be used locally, in order to store an application in a remote repository such as GitHub. Follow the details below to setup Git for the project.

## Setup a Strapi project for deployment

Strapi uses [environment configurations](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/configurations/optional/environment.md) to maintain multiple environments inside a single application. This section describes how to setup a production environment in a Strapi application.

1. [Create a new Strapi application using the quick start flag](/developer-docs/latest/getting-started/quick-start.md) or navigate to the root directory of an existing Strapi application.
2. In the project `config` directory create the sub-directory `config/env/production`
3. Create `database.js` and `server.js` files (`.ts` for TypeScript projects)

### Configure the database

> In order to connect the Strapi application in production to a hosted development database, the database credentials must be specified. Copy the following code snippet into `env/production/database`.

Author: done!

</code-block>
</code-group>

> ### Add Postgres dependencies

Author: fixed

> Connecting a Postgres database to Strapi requires a set of Node modules contained in the `pg` package. Use the same package manager used to create the Strapi application to install `pg`. Run the following command in a terminal:

Author: OK link added.

Save the Strapi application locally then, in a terminal, run :

```

> jsx

Author: fixed throughout.

Click **Save**.

### Deploy and access a Strapi application

> When the above steps are completed DigitalOcean should automatically try to build and deploy the application. If the build does not start, click the **Actions** button in the upper right and select *force rebuild and deploy*. The Strapi admin panel is accessed at {your app domain}/admin once the application is successfully deployed.

Author: OK I changed this formatting.

## Add a managed database

> DigitalOcean managed databases are a production-scale database solution for a deployed Strapi application. Switching from a development database to a managed database requires modifying the Strapi application and modifying the settings on DigitalOcean.

Author: Agree, fixed.

> - removing the database environment variables,

Author: No, the order is largely unimportant. I was adding this section when you reviewed. I will keep this in mind.

- installing the `pg-connection-string` dependency,
- changing the production `database` file,
- creating and attaching the database in the DigitalOcean platform.

### Modify the Strapi application

When a managed database is attached to a Strapi application, the connection parameters are passed directly from the database to the application `.yaml` file. This requires a modification to the `config/env/production/database` file and the addition of the `pg-connection-string` dependency.

> To add the `pg-connection-string` dependency navigate to the project directory and run the code snippet below in a terminal.

Author: fixed

<code-group>

<code-block title="NPM">
```bash
npm install pg-connection-string --save <!-- needed?-->
```
</code-block>

<code-block title="YARN">
```bash
yarn add pg-connection-string
```
</code-block>

</code-group>

To switch to a managed database change the `config/env/production/database` file to be able to parse the `DATABASE_URL` like the example below.

<code-group>

<code-block title='JAVASCRIPT'>

```jsx
// path: ./config/env/production/database.js

const parse = require("pg-connection-string").parse;

const { host, port, database, user, password } = parse(
  process.env.DATABASE_URL
);

> module.exports = ({ env }) => ({

Author: I fixed the closing brace. Let's check the rest of the formatting together before finalizing.

    connection: {
      client: 'postgres',
      cconnection: {
        host,
        port,
        database,
        user,
        password,
        ssl: {
          rejectUnauthorized: false,
        },
      },
      debug: false,
    },
  });

```

</code-block>

<code-block title='TYPESCRIPT'>

```jsx

> //path:config/env/production/database.ts

Author: fixed

const parse = require("pg-connection-string").parse;

const { host, port, database, user, password } = parse(
  process.env.DATABASE_URL
);

> export default ({ env }) => ({

Reviewer: We have indentation issues here as well.

Author: fixed

    connection: {
      client: 'postgres',
      cconnection: {
        host,
        port,
        database,
        user,
        password,
        ssl: {
          rejectUnauthorized: false,
        },
      },
      debug: false,
    },
  });

```

</code-block>
</code-group>

> ### Modify settings on DigitalOcean

Reviewer: We probably need a short introduction here, at least an introductory sentence for the procedure.

Author: Yes, this section was WIP when you reviewed it. Added an intro

1. Create a managed database.

> 2. Attached the managed database to the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Attach the managed database to the application.
```

Author: Sorry, this section was WIP and I should have marked it as such. fixed the typo. I will stick with "App" for the DigitalOcean product, since that is what they use.

> 3. Delete all database environment variables from the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Delete all database environment variables from the application.
```

Maybe I missed a few but please make sure we don't use any abbreviation (app → application). I know how it feels, I've been there last year as well, bad habits from the tech industry :D

Author: DO uses "App" as a specific part of the deployment structure. I have updated "app" -> "App".
